Welcome back.
What I haven't told you is that when learning about object oriented programming again and not just in
Python but in any programming language that supports O P paradigm is this idea of four pillars of all
p the four things that object oriented programming does really really well.
And as a matter of fact we've actually learned the first one and that is the idea of encapsulation.
What is encapsulation encapsulation is the binding of data and functions that manipulate that data and
we encapsulate into one big object so that we keep everything in this box that users or code or other
machines can interact with in this data and functions are what we call attributes and methods right.
We're able to encapsulate the functionality over player character by having name and age data or attributes
and also have functions that can act upon this name and age.
So for example I can have a method in here that says shout or speak and this speak method can now use
the name in age.
I can say my name is self dog named and I am self dot age years called so that if I do player one dot
speak and I run this My name is Andre and I am 100 years old I'm encapsulating the functionality if
I didn't have this class I would have well some variables and then two functions but by using encapsulation
I've packaged this up into a blueprint that I can create multiple objects so so that when other people
see my code they know hey this is an entire object that I can interact with I can use in certain ways
that player character describes.
And we've also seen this in our built in Python data types right.
When I create a string like this because of the encapsulation I have all this functionality available
to me all these methods that I can access so that if I do let's say capitalize it will capitalize all
my strings.
I have all this functionality encapsulated for me to use.
Now why do we want to package data and functions into attributes and methods.
Well because this gives us extra power right.
If for example this player character doesn't have any actions any methods and just had attributes or
in that case this is kind of like a dictionary right.
It's kind of useless if I print player one here and I click Run I have this player object but I can
access name like this and I can also access h like this but I can't really do anything to it.
I could have the same dictionary here let's say Player 2 that is going to equal a dictionary that has
name of Andre and then age of 100 and the only real difference between the two is the way I access this
information instead of the dot notation I use the bracket notation to access the keys
so that when I click Run off to make sure that I do two here for a player to if I click Run Again it's
the same thing.
Sure I can do it this way but it's kind of useless why not just create a dictionary if all I want is
data but using this way I'm combining things packaging things up into those instances.
And to those boxes that can be useful and also things that have meaning great because our world is full
of data and actions right.
Even a tree for example if we had a tree class in our real world the tree would have maybe whether it
was an evergreen or a perennial all have whether it has lease or does it how tall it is.
I'll have all that information but also actions right.
I can cut down a tree.
The tree can grow the tree can extend its roots so this way we're able to mimic what happens in the
real world with our code.
So that is encapsulation and we've seen it.
But let's talk about our second pillar in the next video.